NET-423: Update client README (#353)
streamr-dev/network: packages/client/README.md

## Contents
- [Important information](#important-information)
- [Getting started](#getting-started)
        - [Authenticating](#authenticating)
        - [Creating a stream and publishing data to it](#creating-a-stream-and-publishing-data-to-it)
        - [Subscribing](#subscribing)
- [Setup](#setup)
    - [Installation](#installation)
    - [Importing `streamr-client`](#importing-streamr-client)
- [Usage](#usage)
    - [Client creation](#client-creation)
    - [Creating a stream ](#creating-a-stream-)
    - [Subscribing to a stream](#subscribing-to-a-stream)
    - [Publishing to a stream](#publishing-to-a-stream)
    - [Requesting a resend of historical events with subscriptions](#requesting-a-resend-of-historical-events-with-subscriptions)
    - [Searching for streams](#searching-for-streams)
    - [Interacting with the `Stream` object](#interacting-with-the-stream-object)
        - [Getting existing streams](#getting-existing-streams)
        - [Updating a stream](#updating-a-stream)
        - [Stream permissions](#stream-permissions)
        - [Deleting a stream](#deleting-a-stream)

>     - [Storage options](#storage-options)

Reviewer: Could be simply just "Enabling storage"?

Author: I've changed it into "Message storage for historical data", which seems a bit more wordy, in line with previous titles. Which one should we go with?

>     - [Data Unions](#data-unions)

Reviewer: The DU sub-sections could be in prioritized order? (https://github.com/streamr-dev/network-monorepo/pull/353#discussion_r811892505)

[![Build status](https://github.com/streamr-dev/monorepo/actions/workflows/client-build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/streamr-dev/monorepo/actions/workflows/client-build.yml)
![latest npm package version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/streamr-client?label=latest)
![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/streamr-dev/network-monorepo?style=social)
[![Discord Chat](https://img.shields.io/discord/801574432350928907.svg?label=Discord&logo=Discord&colorB=7289da)](https://discord.gg/FVtAph9cvz)

> This library allows you to easily interact with the [Streamr Network](https://streamr.network) from JavaScript-based environments, such as browsers and [node.js](https://nodejs.org). The library wraps a Streamr light node for publishing and subscribing to data, as well as contains convenience functions for creating and managing streams.

Reviewer: We should consider if we refer to message (preferably) or data, and not use both words in this document?

Author: What does this make reference to?

Reviewer: I mean that in this document we should use only one word to reference to the input type of a subscription (and also output type of a publish, etc). Usually we use word "message", but sometimes e.g. word "data", like here. 

I suggest that we'd update this sentence to be:
"...publishing and subscribing messages..."

And also all other occurrences in the document, e.g.
" ..."By default `subscribe` will not resend historical messages. It only subscribes to real time messages..." (line 222)

(If some sentence are bit boring after that change it could make sense to shorten those. Not a high priority thing.)

Please see the [Streamr project docs](https://streamr.network/docs) for more detailed documentation.

> ## Contents

Reviewer: This could contain links to the relevant sections. Also we could include e.g. two levels of indentation to keep this simple. And e.g. Setup is a simple section, which doesn't need subsections in this TOC?

Reviewer: Links were added but reducing to max two level indentation not yet? And Setup subsections can be left out from this TOC.

- Important information

> - Get Started

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Get started
```
consistent casing

    - Subscribing to a stream
    - Creating & publishing to a stream
- Setup
    - Installation
    - Importing `streamr-client`
- Usage

>     - Client Creation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Client creation
```

        - Authentication
    - Creating a stream 

>     - Subscribing to real-time events in a stream

Reviewer: A subscription is always about real-time events, maybe no need to underline that aspect here?

>     - Publishing data points to a stream

Reviewer: "Data points" is not relevant, let's keep this simple

>     - Resend functionality with subscriptions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Requesting a resend of historical  events with subscriptions
```
This would highlight the historical nature of the data compared to the title "Subscribing to real-time events in a stream"

>     - Search Streams

Reviewer: Consistency in casing for all titles?

>     - Search Streams

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Searching for streams
```

    - Interacting with the `Stream` object

>         - Fetching existent streams

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Fetching existing streams
```

>         - Updating a stream

Reviewer: Update is less important than permissions

Reviewer: How was this resolved?

Author: Put permissions first, then update

>         - Stream Permissions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Stream permissions
```

        - Deleting a stream

>     - Storage Options

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Storing stream messages
```

>     - Storage Options

Reviewer: What does this mean? Should we indent this one step down

Author: Find better wording for "Storage Options" as a title

>     - Data Unions

Reviewer: Check the order of importance

>         - Admin Functions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Admin functions
```
consistent casing

        - Member functions
        - Query functions
        - Withdraw options
        - Deployment options
    - Utility functions

> - Advanced Usage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Advanced usage
```

    - Manual connection management
    - Disable message ordering

>     - Stream Partitioning

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Stream partitioning
```

>     - Stream Partitioning

Reviewer: Stream partitionining is more important than ordering, which is more important than connection management?

>         - A note on Stream ids and partitions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - A note on stream ids and partitions
```

        - Subscribing to partitioned streams
    - Proxy publishing
    - Logging

## Important information
> ⚠️ This section is to be removed before launch 

The current stable version of the Streamr Client is `5.x` (at the time of writing, February 2022) which is connected to the [Corea Network](https://streamr.network/roadmap). The Brubeck Network Streamr Client is the [6.0.0-beta.3](https://www.npmjs.com/package/streamr-client/v/6.0.0-beta.3) build along with the `testnet` builds of the Broker node. The developer experience of the two networks is the same, however, the `6.0.0-beta.3` client also runs as a light node in the network, whereas the `5.x` era client communicates remotely to a Streamr run node. When the Streamr Network transitions into the Brubeck era (ETA Jan/Feb 2022), data guarantees of `5.x` clients will need to be reassessed. Publishing data to the Brubeck network will only be visible in the [Brubeck Core UI](https://brubeck.streamr.network). The Marketplace, Core app and CLI tool are currently all configured to interact with the Corea Network only. Take care not to mix networks during this transition period.

---

## Getting started

#### Authenticating

> In Streamr, Ethereum accounts are used for identity. You can generate an Ethereum private key using any Ethereum wallet, or you can use the utility function `StreamrClient.generateEthereumAccount()`, which returns the address and private key of a fresh Ethereum account. A private key is not required if you are only subscribing to public data on the Network. See more about [Authentication](#client-creation)

Reviewer: Should the link and the title match?

```js
const streamr = new StreamrClient({
    auth: {
        privateKey: 'your-private-key'
    }
})
```

#### Creating a stream and publishing data to it
```js 
// Requires MATIC tokens (Polygon blockchain gas token)
const stream = await streamr.createStream({
    id: '/foo/bar'
})

await stream.publish({ timestamp: Date.now() })
```

#### Subscribing
```js 
const streamId = 'binance-streamr.eth/ETHUSDT/ticker'

streamr.subscribe(streamId, (message) => {
    // handle for individual messages
})

```

More examples can be found in the [examples repo](https://github.com/streamr-dev/examples).
___

## Setup

### Installation
The client is available on [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/streamr-client) and can be installed simply by:

```
npm install streamr-client
```

### Importing `streamr-client`
To use with react please see [streamr-client-react](https://github.com/streamr-dev/streamr-client-react)

> If using typescript you can import the library with:

Reviewer: casing: TypeScript, consistent between "If"/"When"

```js
import { StreamrClient } from 'streamr-client'
```
When using Node.js you can import the library with:

```js
const { StreamrClient } = require('streamr-client')
```

For usage in the browser include the latest build, e.g. by including a `<script>` tag pointing at a CDN:

```html

> <!-- for Brubeck package (6x) -->

Reviewer: Brubeck term is not needed, just leave out the comment

<script src="https://unpkg.com/streamr-client@beta/streamr-client.web.js"></script>
```

> ___

Reviewer 2: Is this needed or some leftover thing?

## Usage
### Client Creation

> If you don't have an Ethereum account you can use the utility function [StreamrClient.generateEthereumAccount()](#utility-functions), which returns the address and private key of a fresh Ethereum account.

Reviewer 2: I think rather than this paragraph, providing an example of using `StreamrClient.generateEthereumAccount()` in conjunction with creating a client could fit the theme of this section better?

> More information on Stream IDs under the [stream creation project docs](https://streamr.network/docs/streams/creating-streams)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
More information on Stream IDs can be found under the [stream creation project docs](https://streamr.network/docs/streams/creating-streams)
```

> More information on Stream IDs under the [stream creation project docs](https://streamr.network/docs/streams/creating-streams)

Reviewer: Maybe this could be stated a bit later?

Reviewer: Or as user maybe doesn't need authentication at all, we could leave out the paragraph here. If he wants a specific authentication, we surely has an Ethereum key already (and therefore doesn't need the utility function).

```js
const streamr = new StreamrClient({
    auth: {
        privateKey: 'your-private-key'
    }
})
```

> Authenticating with an Ethereum private key contained in an Ethereum (web3) provider:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Authenticating with an Ethereum private key contained in an Ethereum (web3) provider (e.g. MetaMask):
```

```js
const streamr = new StreamrClient({
    auth: {
        ethereum: window.ethereum,
    }
})
```

> You can also create an anonymous client instance that will be allowed to interact with public streams:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also create an anonymous client instance that can interact with public streams:
```

```js
const streamr = new StreamrClient()
```

### Creating a stream 
```js
// Requires MATIC tokens (Polygon blockchain gas token)
const stream = await streamr.createStream({
    id: '/foo/bar'
})

> console.log(stream.id) // `${address}/foo/bar`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
console.log(stream.id) // e.g. `0x1234567890123456789012345678901234567890/foo/bar`
```

```

### Subscribing to real-time events in a stream

> The callback's first parameter, `payload`, will contain the value given to the `publish` method. The second parameter `streamrMessage` is of type StreamrObject. [You can read more about it here](../protocol/src/protocol/message_layer/StreamMessage.ts)

Reviewer 2: The sentence is referring to items that are introduced only later in the subsequent code snippet. For clarity, I would move the code snippet above this paragraph.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The callback's first parameter, `payload`, will contain the contents of the message. The second parameter `streamrMessage` is of type `StreamMessage`, which contains additional metadata. [You can read more about `StreamMessage` here](../protocol/src/protocol/message_layer/StreamMessage.ts)
```

> The callback's first parameter, `payload`, will contain the value given to the `publish` method. The second parameter `streamrMessage` is of type StreamrObject. [You can read more about it here](../protocol/src/protocol/message_layer/StreamMessage.ts)

Reviewer: Do we want to link to source code without explaining it more?

Reviewer: Ok, I suggest that we don't link to source code in this README. We can link to a API documentation when we have one. Also fix the StreamrObject -> `StreamrObject`.

> The callback's first parameter, `payload`, will contain the value given to the `publish` method. The second parameter `streamrMessage` is of type StreamrObject. [You can read more about it here](../protocol/src/protocol/message_layer/StreamMessage.ts)

Reviewer: The first parameter is the content of the message, maybe rename the parameter to `content`?

Reviewer: We should use the same word `content` in all callbacks, see lines 755-764.

> The callback's first parameter, `payload`, will contain the value given to the `publish` method. The second parameter `streamrMessage` is of type StreamrObject. [You can read more about it here](../protocol/src/protocol/message_layer/StreamMessage.ts)

Reviewer: Maybe the metadata can be explained in a separate paragraph, as it is a bit more advanced usage?

```js
// subscribing to a stream:
const subscription = await streamr.subscribe(
    streamId, 
    (payload, streamrMessage) => {

>         console.log(payload) // the value passed to the publish method

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        console.log(payload) // the contents of the message
```

>         console.log(payload) // the value passed to the publish method

Reviewer: Remove both console.log comments, already explained

>         console.log(streamrMessage) // the complete StreamrObject sent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        console.log(streamrMessage)
```

    }
)
```

> Fetching all streams the client is subscribed to:

Reviewer: Fetch would indicate a heavy operation

```js
const subscriptions = streamr.getSubscriptions()

> ```

Reviewer 2: Unsubscribing is imo more relevant than fetching all streams the client is subscribed to, so I would move that example before this.

```
npm install streamr-client
```

### Importing `streamr-client`
When using Node.js remember to import the library with:

```js
const { StreamrClient } = require('streamr-client')
```

For usage in the browser include the latest build, e.g. by including a `<script>` tag pointing at a CDN:

```html
<!-- for Brubeck package (6x) -->
<script src="https://unpkg.com/streamr-client@6.0.0-beta.2/streamr-client.web.js"></script>
```

>  To use with react please see [streamr-client-react](https://github.com/streamr-dev/streamr-client-react)

### StreamId and the StreamDefinition type
The [StreamDefinition type](https://github.com/streamr-dev/network-monorepo/blob/04bb2df5b246c502de8e13fbb51b9db1ffb4f668/packages/client/src/types.ts#L9) defines what a stream id should be:
```typescript
export type StreamDefinition = string
    { id: string, partition?: number },
    ...
}
```

This means one can define a stream id for our known `address` at `partition: 1` as either:
```js
const streamId = `${address}/foo/bar#1'
```
Or:
```js
const streamId = {
    id: `${address}/foo/bar`,
    partition: 1
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: *Forget this point, see teo's below*

As discussed in meeting, let's avoid talking about type `StreamDefinition` directly as it is a technicality from the end user's perspective. Instead something like "The public methods of the client generally support the following three ways of defining a stream:"
- Stream id `${address}/foo/bar`
- Stream id + partition `${address}/foo/bar#4`
- Stream id + partition `{ id:  `${address}/foo/bar`, partition: 4 }`

When defining a stream id only, the value of partition will be interpreted to take on a default value which is dependent on the method being called.

Reviewer: We could do this explaining in partitioning section. And all examples before the partitionin sections would just use the plain string as a streamId (therefore defaulting to 0 partition).

---

## Table of contents

[Installation](#installation) · [Usage](#usage) · [API Docs](#API-docs) · [Client options](#client-options) · [Authentication](#authentication-options) · [Managing subscriptions](#managing-subscriptions) · [Stream API](#stream-api) · [Subscription options](#subscription-options) · [Storage](#storage) ·[Data Unions](#data-unions) · [Utility functions](#utility-functions) · [Events](#events) · [Stream Partitioning](#stream-partitioning) · [Logging](#logging) · [NPM Publishing](#publishing-latest)

## Get Started

> Here are some usage examples. More examples can be found [here](https://github.com/streamr-dev/examples).

Reviewer 2: Somewhere in the beginning of this document, advertise https://github.com/streamr-dev/streamr-client-react for react use cases.

Reviewer 2: Let's keep this in hold for now, we should understand when the react thing gets released.

>In Streamr, Ethereum accounts are used for identity. You can generate an Ethereum private key using any Ethereum wallet, or you can use the utility function `StreamrClient.generateEthereumAccount()`, which returns the address and private key of a fresh Ethereum account.

> ### Installation

Reviewer 2: Before section `Installation` two quick snippets:
- subscribing to a stream
- creating & publishing to a stream

Reviewer: And the snippets should be in order of importance (subscribe is more typical), as it is already in Usage section

The client is available on [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/streamr-client) and can be installed simply by:

```
npm install streamr-client
```

### Importing `streamr-client`
When using Node.js remember to import the library with:

```typescript
import { StreamrClient } from 'streamr-client'
```

Or 
```typescript
const { StreamrClient } = require('streamr-client')
```

For usage in the browser include the latest build:
```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/streamr-client@latest/streamr-client.web.js"></script>

<!-- for Corea package (5x) -->
<script src="https://unpkg.com/streamr-client@5.5.7/streamr-client.web.js"></script>

<!-- for Brubeck package (6x) -->
<script src="https://unpkg.com/streamr-client@6.0.0-beta.2/streamr-client.web.js"></script>

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For usage in the browser include the latest build, e.g. by including a <script> tag pointing at a CDN:
```html
<!-- for Brubeck package (6x) -->
<script src="https://unpkg.com/streamr-client@6.0.0-beta.2/streamr-client.web.js"></script>
```
```

### Creating a StreamrClient instance
```typescript
const client = new StreamrClient({
    auth: {
        privateKey: 'your-ethereum-private-key'
    }
})
```
> ℹ️ More `StreamrClient` creation options can be found in the [Installation](#installation) section.

### Getting the client's address
```typescript
const address = await client.getAddress()
```

### Creating a stream 
```typescript
const STREAM_ID = `${address}/some-stream-id`

const stream = await client.createStream({
    id: STREAM_ID
})

> ```

Reviewer 2: Maybe worth outlining the two ways of creating a stream:
```suggestion
const stream = await client.createStream({
    id: '/foo/bar'
})
// stream.id === `${address}/foo/bar`
```

Reviewer: Agree with @harbu on this

In order to  enable historical data `resends` add first the stream to a storage node:
```typescript
import { StorageNode, StreamrClient } from StreamrClient

> await stream.addToStorageNode(StorageNode.STREAMR_GERMANY)

Reviewer 2: Update to reference `STREAMR_STORAGE_NODE_GERMANY`

```
> ℹ️ Visit the [Storage section](#storage) for more options.

### Fetching existent streams
Getting an existent stream is pretty straight-forward
```typescript
const stream = await client.getStream(STREAM_ID)
```

The method `getOrCreateStream` allows for a seamless creation/fetching process:
```typescript
const stream = await client.getOrCreateStream({
    id: `${address}/doc-tests`
})
```

### Subscribing to real-time events in a stream

```typescript
const sub = await client.subscribe({
    stream: STREAM_ID,

>     streamPartition: 0, // Optional, defaults to zero. Use for partitioned streams to select partition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    id: STREAM_ID,
    partition: 0, // Optional, defaults to zero. Use for partitioned streams to select partition.
```

### Resending historical data

```typescript
const sub = await client.resendSubscribe({
    stream: STREAM_ID,

>     resend: {

Reviewer 2: This should be changed to be 
```ts
client.resend(
    'streamId',
    {
        last : 5
    },
    (message) => {
        .... // whatever is here
    }
)
```
in accordance with aa7b7a0c3db3cf972355629390f3798dcb2d0c4e.

}

// Publish using the stream id only
await client.publish(STREAM_ID, msg)

// The first argument can also be the stream object
await client.publish(stream, msg)

// Publish with a specific timestamp as a Date object (default is now)
await client.publish(STREAM_ID, msg, new Date(54365472))

// Publish with a specific timestamp in ms
await client.publish(STREAM_ID, msg, 54365472)

// Publish with a specific timestamp as a ISO8601 string
await client.publish(STREAM_ID, msg, '2019-01-01T00:00:00.123Z')

// Publish with a specific partition key (read more about partitioning further down this readme)
await client.publish(STREAM_ID, msg, Date.now(), 'my-partition-key')

// For convenience, stream.publish(...) equals client.publish(stream, ...)
await stream.publish(msg)
```

----

> ## Client configuration

Reviewer 2: - Let's get rid of the table, we shall replace it with TSdocs in the future.
- Let's get rid of JSON as well.
- Just explain `auth` and `orderMessages` and `gapFill`.

        factorySidechainAddress: EthereumAddress,
        templateMainnetAddress: EthereumAddress,
        templateSidechainAddress: EthereumAddress,
    },
    cache: {
        maxSize: number,
        maxAge: number,
    },
    // EthereumConfig
    binanceRPC: ConnectionInfo & {
        chainId?: number,
    },
    binanceAdapterAddress: EthereumAddress,
    binanceSmartChainAMBAddress: EthereumAddress,
    withdrawServerUrl: string,
    mainnet?: ConnectionInfo | string,
    sidechain: ConnectionInfo & {
        chainId?: number,
    },
    tokenAddress: EthereumAddress,
    tokenSidechainAddress: EthereumAddress,
    // ConnectionConfig
    restUrl: string,
    autoConnect: boolean,
    autoDisconnect: boolean,
    // PublishConfig
    maxPublishQueueSize: number,
    publishWithSignature: Todo,
    publisherStoreKeyHistory: boolean,
    publishAutoDisconnectDelay: number,
    // SubscribeConfig
    orderMessages: boolean,
    gapFill: boolean,
    maxGapRequests: number,
    maxRetries: number,
    verifySignatures: Todo,
    retryResendAfter: number,
    gapFillTimeout: number,
    // EncryptionConfig
    groupKeys: {},

})    
```

## Authentication

> Note: **Authenticating with an API key has been deprecated. Cryptographic keys/wallets is the only supported authentication method.**

Reviewer 2: Just drop note

}

// Publish using the stream id only
await streamr.publish(streamId, msg)

// The first argument can also be the stream object
await streamr.publish(stream, msg)

// Publish with a specific timestamp as a Date object (default is now)
await streamr.publish(streamId, msg, new Date(1546300800123))

// Publish with a specific timestamp in ms
await streamr.publish(streamId, msg, 1546300800123)

// Publish with a specific timestamp as a ISO8601 string
await streamr.publish(streamId, msg, '2019-01-01T00:00:00.123Z')

// For convenience, stream.publish(...) equals streamr.publish(stream, ...)
await stream.publish(msg)
```

> ### Requesting a resend of historical events with subscriptions

Reviewer: From users perspective the concept is about the historical data, not resending it. Do not use the word resend in the title and do not talk about requesting in line 225?

const streams = await streamr.searchStreams('foo', {
    user: '0x12345...'
})
```
To get all streams for which a user has any permission (direct or public):
```js
const streams = await streamr.searchStreams('foo', {
    user: '0x12345...',
    allowPublic: true
})
```

It is also possible to filter by specific permissions by using `allOf` and `anyOf` flags. Flag `allOf` should be preferred over `anyOf` when possible due to better query performance.

If you want to find the streams you can subscribe to:
```js 
const streams = await streamr.searchStreams(undefined, {
    user: '0x12345...',
    allOf: [StreamPermission.SUBSCRIBE],
    allowPublic: true
})
```
If you want to find any streams you can publish to, regardless of the other permissions assigned:
```js
const streams = await streamr.searchStreams(undefined, {
    user: '0x12345...',
    anyOf: [StreamPermission.PUBLISH],
    allowPublic: true
})
```
___
### Interacting with the `Stream` object
The `Stream` type provides a convenient way to interact with a stream without having to repeatedly pass Stream IDs.
#### Getting existing streams
Getting an existing stream:
```js
const stream = await streamr.getStream(streamId)
```

> The method getOrCreateStream fetches the stream if it exists, and if not, creates it:

Reviewer: To be consistent with the method name: replace `fetches` -> `gets`

```js

> // May require MATIC tokens (Polygon blockchain gas token) upon stream creation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// May require MATIC tokens (Polygon blockchain gas token)
```

    allowPublic: true
}
```

The full list of permissions for a stream can be queried by calling `stream.getPermissions()`:
```js
const permissions = await stream.getPermissions()
```
The returned value is an array of permissions containing an item for each user, and possibly one for public permissions:
```js
    permissions = [
        { user: '0x12345...', permissions: ['subscribe', 'publish'] },
        { public: true, permissions: ['subscribe']}
    ]
```

#### Deleting a stream
To delete a stream:
```js
// Requires MATIC tokens (Polygon blockchain gas token)
await stream.delete()
```

### Storage options

You can enable data storage on your streams to retain historical data and access it later via `resend`. By default storage is not enabled on streams. You can enable it with:

```js
const { StreamrClient, STREAMR_STORAGE_NODE_GERMANY } = require('streamr-client')
...
// assign a stream to a storage node
await stream.addToStorageNode(STREAMR_STORAGE_NODE_GERMANY)
// remove the stream from a storage node
await stream.removeFromStorageNode(STREAMR_STORAGE_NODE_GERMANY)
// fetch the storage nodes for a stream
const storageNodes = stream.getStorageNodes()
```

### Data Unions

> This library provides functions for working with Data Unions. Please see the [TypeScript generated function documentation](https://streamr-dev.github.io/streamr-client-javascript/classes/dataunion_dataunion.dataunion.html) for information on each Data Union endpoint.

Reviewer: The link is not valid (and it is a API doc, not "TypeScript generated function documentation")

}

// Publish using the stream id only
await client.publish('my-stream-id', msg)
await streamr.publish(streamId, msg)

// The first argument can also be the stream object

> await client.publish(stream, msg)

Reviewer: Could remove this use case. It is better to use `stream.publish()`.

// Publish with a specific timestamp as a Date object (default is now)

> await streamr.publish(streamId, msg, new Date(54365472))

Reviewer: Are these timestamps realistic data? Could use the timestamp of the other example

// Publish with a specific timestamp in ms
await streamr.publish(streamId, msg, 54365472)

// Publish with a specific timestamp as a ISO8601 string
await streamr.publish(streamId, msg, '2019-01-01T00:00:00.123Z')

// For convenience, stream.publish(...) equals streamr.publish(stream, ...)
await stream.publish(msg)
```

### Resend functionality with subscriptions

> By default `subscribe` will not resend historical data, only subscribe to real time messages. In order to fetch historical messages the stream needs to have [storage enabled](#storage).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default `subscribe` will not request a resend of historical data, but only subscribe to real time messages. In order to fetch historical messages the stream needs to have [storage enabled](#storage).
```

Reviewer 2: Actually I would move the 2nd sentence, "In order to fetch historical messages the stream needs to have storage enabled.", to occur after the `streamr.resend` and `streamr.subscribe` examples have been presented (before paragraph that starts with "Resend from a specific message reference up to the newest message:").

> Note that only one of the resend options can be used for a particular subscription. The default functionality is to resend nothing, only subscribe to messages from the subscription moment onwards.

Reviewer 2: I would move this disclaimer after the different resend options have been introduced.

> One can either fetch the historical sent messages with the `resend` method:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One can either fetch historical messages with the `resend` method:
```

```js
// Fetches the last 10 messages stored for the stream
const resend1 = await streamr.resend(
    streamId,
    {
        last: 10,
    }, 

>     messageCallback

Reviewer: consistency for the callback name: maybe use onMessage?

)
```

> Or fetch them and subscribe to new messages in the same call via a `subscribe` call:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Or fetch historical message and subscribe to real-time messages in the same call via a `subscribe` call:
```

```js
// Fetches the last 10 messages and subscribes to the stream

> const sub1 = await streamr.subscribe({

Reviewer: Should use `resend` in all examples? If we've separately mentioned that there are the two styles: `resend` and `subscribe`?

    id: streamId,
    resend: {
        last: 10,
    }
}, messageCallback)
```

> Resend from a specific message reference up to the newest message:

Reviewer: This example use a message reference (it is using timestamp)

Author: Sorry, not following. What did you mean here?

Reviewer: In the example there is a timestamp property in from block. A ResendRef can be a MessageRef or a timestamp-based reference:
https://github.com/streamr-dev/network-monorepo/blob/aa7b7a0c3db3cf972355629390f3798dcb2d0c4e/packages/client/src/subscribe/Resends.ts#L35

The is good to have the timestamp-based reference in the example. Just update the wording in line 245.

```js
const sub2 = await streamr.subscribe({
    id: streamId,
    resend: {
        from: {
            timestamp: (Date.now() - 1000 * 60 * 5), // 5 minutes ago
        },
        publisher: '0x12345...', // optional
    }
}, onMessage)
```

> Resend a limited range of messages:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Resend a range of messages:
```

```js
const sub3 = await streamr.subscribe({
    id: streamId,
    resend: {
        from: {
            timestamp: (Date.now() - 1000 * 60 * 10), // 10 minutes ago
        },
        to: {
            timestamp: (Date.now() - 1000 * 60 * 5), // 5 minutes ago
        },
        // when using from and to the following parameters are optional
        // but, if specified, both must be present
        publisher: '0x12345...', 
        msgChainId: 'ihuzetvg0c88ydd82z5o', 
    }
}, onMessage)
```
If you choose one of the above resend options when subscribing, you can listen on the completion of this resend by doing the following:

```js
const sub = await streamr.subscribe(options)
sub.onResent(() => {

>     console.log('All caught up and received all requested historical messages! Now switching to real time!')

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    console.log('Received all requested historical messages! Now switching to real time!')
```

})
```

### Search Streams

> You can search for a stream which has the `term` string in it's id as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can search for streams by specifying a search term:
```

```js
const streams = await streamr.searchStreams('foo')
```

> You can query for the streams using an optional second parameter to fine-tune your search. A permission query searches over stream permissions. You can either query by direct permissions (which are explicitly granted to a user), or by all permissions (including public permissions, which apply to all users).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively or additionally to the search term, you can search for streams based on permissions.
```

> To get all streams where a user has some direct permission. The `user` option can be omitted. In that case, it defaults to the authenticated user:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get all streams for which a user has any direct permission:
```

> To get all streams where a user has some direct permission. The `user` option can be omitted. In that case, it defaults to the authenticated user:

Reviewer: It doesn't default to the authenticated user. The cli-tools command does, when we define a `--user` flag.

```js 
const streams = await streamr.searchStreams('foo', {
    user: '0x12345...'
})

> // Or, to query for all the streams accessible by the user

Reviewer 2: I would divide the code snippet into two and precede the 2nd snippet with
```
To get all streams for which a user has any permission (direct or public):
```

const streams = await streamr.searchStreams('foo', {
    user: '0x12345...',
    allowPublic: true
})
```

> It is also possible to filter by specific permissions by using `allOf` and `anyOf` flags. Please prefer `allOf` to `anyOf` when possible as it has better query performance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is also possible to filter by specific permissions by using `allOf` and `anyOf` flags. Flag `allOf` should be preferred over `anyOf` when possible due to better query performance.
```

> If you want to find the streams you can exclusively subscribe to:

Reviewer: For the both "you can publish to" examples we could leave out the search terms as it is more realistic use case and more in line what we describe in the sentence.

Author: What would that look like? Would `...` just do it, or does it become confusing?:
```js
const streams = await streamr.searchStreams(
    ...
    , {
      user: '0x12345...',
      allOf: [StreamPermission.SUBSCRIBE],
    }
 )
```

Reviewer: I mean, use `undefined` as the search term. As we describe the use case as "streams you can subscribe to", not e.g. "streams you can subscribe to, and also containing term foobar":
https://github.com/streamr-dev/network-monorepo/blob/0c7e55c2b4417b3f049fc09241b28f9832ffef55/packages/client/src/StreamRegistry.ts#L259

> If you want to find the streams you can exclusively subscribe to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to find the streams you can subscribe to:
```

```js 
const streams = await streamr.searchStreams('foo', {
    user: '0x12345...',
    allOf: [StreamPermission.SUBSCRIBE],

> })

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const streams = await streamr.searchStreams('foo', {
    user: '0x12345...',
    allOf: [StreamPermission.SUBSCRIBE],
    allowPublic: true
})
```

```

> If you want to find any streams you can publish to, regardless of the other permissions assigned:

Reviewer: Maybe we don't need all examples of anyOf/allOf?

```js
const streams = await streamr.searchStreams('foo', {
    user: '0x12345...',
    anyOf: [StreamPermission.PUBLISH],

> })

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to find the streams you can publish to:
```js
const streams = await streamr.searchStreams('foo', {
    user: '0x12345...',
    allOf: [StreamPermission.PUBLISH],
    allowPublic: true
})
```

```

> The `allOf` method will return streams which permissions exactly match the provided array:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To find the streams for which a user has both publish and subscribe permission:
```

```js 
const streams = await streamr.searchStreams('foo', {
    allOf: [StreamPermission.SUBSCRIBE, StreamPermission.PUBLISH]

> })

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const streams = await streamr.searchStreams('foo', {
    user: '0x12345...',
    allOf: [StreamPermission.SUBSCRIBE, StreamPermission.PUBLISH],
    allowPublic: true
})
```

```
___
### Interacting with the `Stream` object

> 

Reviewer 2: "The `Stream` type provides a convenient way to interact with a stream without having to repeatedly pass Stream IDs."

> #### Fetching existent streams

Reviewer: Consider other verb?

> #### Fetching existent streams

Reviewer 2: Maybe a redundant section title, could this just be directly under "Interacting with the `Stream` object"?

> Getting an existent stream is pretty straight-forward

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Getting an existing stream:
```

```js
const stream = await streamr.getStream(streamId)
```

> The method getOrCreateStream allows for a seamless creation/fetching process:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The method getOrCreateStream fetches the stream if it exists, and if not, creates it:
```

```js
// May require gas upon stream creation
const stream = await streamr.getOrCreateStream({
    id: streamId
})
```

#### Updating a stream

> Updates the description locally set for the stream

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To update the description of a stream:
```

```js
stream.description = 'New description!'
await stream.update()
```

#### Stream Permissions

There are 5 different permissions:
- StreamPermission.PUBLISH
- StreamPermission.SUBSCRIBE
- StreamPermission.EDIT
- StreamPermission.DELETE
- StreamPermission.GRANT

You can import the `StreamPermission` enum with:
```js
const { StreamPermission } = require('streamr-client')
```

For each stream + user there can be a permission assignment containing a subset of those permissions. It is also possible to grant public permissions for streams (only `StreamPermission.PUBLISH` and `StreamPermission.SUBSCRIBE`). If a stream has e.g. a public subscribe permissions, it means that anyone can subscribe to that stream.

> To grant permissions for users:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To grant a permission for a user:
```

```js
await stream.grantPermissions({
    user: '0x12345...',
    permissions: [StreamPermission.PUBLISH],
})

> // And for public streams:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Or to grant a public permission
```

await stream.grantPermissions({
    public: true,
    permissions: [StreamPermission.SUBSCRIBE]
})
```

> And to revoke them:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To revoke a permission from a user:
```

```js
await stream.revokePermissions({
    user: '0x12345...',
    permissions: [StreamPermission.PUBLISH]
})

> // Or revoke public permissions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Or revoke public permission:
```

await stream.revokePermissions({
    public: true,
    permissions: [StreamPermission.SUBSCRIBE]
})
```        

> There is also method `streamr.setPermissions`. You can use it to set an exact set of permissions for one or more streams. Note that if there are existing permissions for the same users in a stream, the previous permissions are overwritten:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The method `streamr.setPermissions` can be used to set an exact set of permissions for one or more streams. Note that if there are existing permissions for the same users in a stream, the previous permissions are overwritten:
```

```js
await streamr.setPermissions({
    streamId,
    assignments: [
        {
            user: '0x12345...',
            permissions: [StreamPermission.EDIT]
        }, {
            user: '0x6789a...',
            permissions: [StreamPermission.GRANT]
        }, {
            public: true,
            permissions: [StreamPermission.PUBLISH, StreamPermission.SUBSCRIBE]
        }
    ]
})
```

You can query the existence of a permission with `hasPermission()`. Usually you want to use `allowPublic: true` flag so that also the existence of a public permission is checked:
```js
await stream.hasPermission({
    permission: StreamPermission.PUBLISH,
    user: '0x12345...',
    allowPublic: true
}
```

> All streams permissions can be queried by calling `stream.getPermissions()`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The full list of permissions for a stream can be queried by calling `stream.getPermissions()`:
```

```js
const permissions = await stream.getPermissions()
```

> The returned permissions are an array containing an item for each user, and one for public permissions:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The returned value is an array of permissions containing an item for each user, and possibly one for public permissions:
```

```js
    permissions = [
        { user: '0x12345...', permissions: ['subscribe', 'publish'] },
        { public: true, permissions: ['subscribe']}
    ]
```

#### Deleting a stream

> Deletes the stream from the on-chain registry:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To delete a stream:
```

```js

> // Requires gas

Reviewer: Consistent comment about gas?

await stream.delete()
```

### Storage Options

> You can enable data storage on your streams to retain historical data in one or more geographic locations of your choice and access it later via `resend`. By default storage is not enabled on streams. You can enable it with:

Reviewer: There are no multiple geographic locations at the moment (just the storage node in Germany)

```js
const { StreamrClient, STREAMR_STORAGE_NODE_GERMANY } = require('streamr-client')
...

> // assign a stream to storage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// assign a stream to a storage node
```

await stream.addToStorageNode(STREAMR_STORAGE_NODE_GERMANY)
// fetch the storage nodes for a stream

> const storageNodes = stream.getStorageNodes()

Reviewer: The list of storage nodes is the least used feature, I guess?

            timestamp: (Date.now() - 1000 * 60 * 5), // 5 minutes ago
            sequenceNumber: 0, // optional
        },

>         publisher: '0x1234567890123456789012345678901234567890', // optional

Reviewer: I'd use the shorter form, it is more readable to me. (Or am I contradictory to some previous comment that I made?)

```
In order to fetch historical messages the stream needs to have [storage enabled](#storage).

> Resend from a specific message reference up to the newest message:

Reviewer: Just "timestamp". A message timestamp is not a concept

Authenticating with an Ethereum private key contained in an Ethereum (web3) provider:

```typescript
const client = new StreamrClient({
    auth: {
        ethereum: window.ethereum,
    }
})
```

Authenticating with Metamask's Ethereum private key contained in an Ethereum (web3) provider:
```typescript
import detectEthereumProvider from '@metamask/detect-provider'

const client = new StreamrClient({
    auth: {
        ethereum: detectEthereumProvider()
    }
})
```

> Authenticating with a pre-existing session token (used internally by the Streamr app):

Reviewer 2: You could shortly explain that a `StreamrClient` can be created without a private key (needs testing that this actually works):
```javascript
const client = new StreamrClient()
```
It will be associated with a randomly generated address (that does not get stored anywhere, a bit of a throw away account), and that has limited capability due to not having gas.

> ```typescript

Reviewer 2: Just remove all these stuff about `sessionToken`. (It is technically still in the code, but something we don't advertise.)

    streamId,
    assignments: [
        {
            user: '0x1234567890123456789012345678901234567890',
            permissions: [StreamPermission.EDIT]
        }, {

>             user: '0x6789a0x1234567890123456789012345678901234567891'

Reviewer: Typo in the address

Reviewer: It would be super readable if a end-user can think this straightforwardly:
- there are two users
- user 1 has address `0x1111...` and user 2 has address `0x2222...`
- for user 1 we grant this permission, and for user 2 we grant that other permission

If the second bullet point is confusing -> the whole logic is more confusing. Maybe not relevant in this small example.

await client.connect()
```

## Stream subscriptions

> | Name                         | Description                                                                                                                                                                     |

Reviewer 2: Get rid of table, add code snippet for cases that aren't already included below.

| unsubscribeAll(`streamId`)   | Unsubscribes all `Subscriptions` for `streamId`. Returns a promise.                                                                                                             |
| getSubscriptions() | Returns a list of all active `Subscriptions` on this client. Returns a promise.                                                                                                            |

```typescript
// subscribing to a stream:
const subscription = await client.subscribe(
    { stream: STREAM_ID },
    (message) => { ... }

> )

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const subscription = await client.subscribe(STREAM_ID, (message) => { ... })
```

// fetching all streams the client is subscribed to:
const subscriptions = client.getSubscriptions()

// unsubscribing from an existent subscription:

> await client.unsubscribe({stream: STREAM_ID})

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
await client.unsubscribe(STREAM_ID)
```

// or, unsubscribe them all:

> const streams = await client.removeAll()

Reviewer 2: To unsubscribe from all streams
```suggestion
const streams = await client.unsubscribe()
```

> | payload       | A JS object containing the message payload itself                                                                                                                                                                                |

Reviewer 2: Remove table, and move to snippet

| streamMessage | The whole [StreamMessage](https://github.com/streamr-dev/streamr-client-protocol-js/blob/master/src/protocol/message_layer/StreamMessage.js) object containing various metadata, for example `streamMessage.getTimestamp()` etc. |

```typescript
const sub = await client.subscribe({
    streamId: STREAM_ID,

> }, (payload: any, streamMessage: StreamMessage) => {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
}, (payload, streamMessage) => { // streamMessage is of type StreamMessage
```

    console.log({
        payload, streamMessage

>     })

Reviewer 2: Change title below
> ### Subscription Options
to something like `Doing a resend with subscription`

> | resend    | Object defining the resend options. Below are examples of its contents.            |

Reviewer 2: Get rid of table.

| groupKeys | Object defining the group key as a hex string for each publisher id of the stream. |

```typescript
// Resend N most recent messages

> const sub1 = await client.subscribeResend({

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const sub1 = await client.subscribe({
```

    streamId: STREAM_ID,
    resend: {
        last: 10,
    }
}, onMessage)

// Resend from a specific message reference up to the newest message

> const sub2 = await client.subscribeResend({

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
const sub2 = await client.subscribe({
```

    streamId: STREAM_ID,
    resend: {
        from: {

>             timestamp: 12345,

Reviewer 2: Remove `msgChainId` here.

    }
}, onMessage)
```
> ⚠️ Seems like the `subscribe` method no longer returns and eventEmitter and the `.on('resend', ...)` expected behavior is not available

If you choose one of the above resend options when subscribing, you can listen on the completion of this resend by doing the following:

```typescript
// THIS CODE DOES NOT CURRENTLY WORK! 

> // COULD NOT FIND A REPLACEMENT

Reviewer 2: Can remove this now after the change below

const sub = await client.subscribe(options)
sub.on('resent', () => {

>     console.log('All caught up and received all requested historical messages! Now switching to real time!')

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sub.onResent(() => {
    console.log('All caught up and received all requested historical messages! Now switching to real time!')
})
```

})
```

## Storage

You can enable data storage on your streams to retain historical data in one or more geographic locations of your choice and access it later via `resend`. By default storage is not enabled on streams. You can enable it with:

```typescript
import { StorageNode } from 'streamr-client'
...
// assign a stream to storage

> await stream.addToStorageNode(StorageNode.STREAMR_GERMANY)

Reviewer 2: Change constant

// fetch the storage nodes for a stream
const storageNodes = stream.getStorageNodes()
// remove the stream from a storage node

> await stream.removeFromStorageNode(StorageNode.STREAMR_GERMANY)

Reviewer 2: Change constant

| :-------------------------------------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| getStream(streamId)                                 | Fetches a stream object from the API.                                                                                                                |
| listStreams(query)                                  | Fetches an array of stream objects from the API. For the query params, consult the [API docs](https://api-explorer.streamr.com).                     |
| getStreamByName(name)                               | Fetches a stream which exactly matches the given name.                                                                                               |
| createStream(\[properties])                         | Creates a stream with the given properties. For more information on the stream properties, consult the [API docs](https://api-explorer.streamr.com). You must specify the `id`. It must start with your ethereum address.|

> | getOrCreateStream(properties)                       | Gets a stream with the id or name given in `properties`, or creates it if one is not found.                                                          |

Reviewer 2: The left-side (the removed stuff here) seems like the correct versions. However, we probably should remove the table anyways.

| publish(streamId, message, timestamp, partitionKey) | Publishes a new message to the given stream.                                                                                                         |

```typescript
// getStream
const stream: Stream = await client.getStream(STREAM_ID)

// getStreamByName

> const stream = await client.getStreamByName('stream-name')

Reviewer 2: This no longer exists. Remove.

// listStreams
const streams: Stream[] = await client.listStreams({
    name?: string;
    uiChannel?: boolean;
    noConfig?: boolean;
    search?: string;
    sortBy?: string;
    order?: 'asc' | 'desc';
    max?: number;
    offset?: number;
    grantedAccess?: boolean;
    publicAccess?: boolean;
    operation?: StreamOperation;

> })

Reviewer 2: It's called `searchStreams` now and supports a different set of options.
```suggestion
const streams: Stream[] = await client.searchStreams({
    term: '/foo',
    permissionFilter: {
        allowPublic: true
    }
})
```

// createStream
const stream = await client.createStream({
    id: `${await client.getAddress()}/stream-01`
})
// getOrCreateStream
const stream = await client.getOrCreateStream({
    id: `${await client.getAddress()}/stream-01`
})

> 

Reviewer 2: Already covered earlier, remove.

```

### Stream object

All the below functions return a Promise which gets resolved with the result.

> | Name                                      | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

Reviewer 2: Replace table with code snippets if there are no code snippets for these methods. Ignore permission-related methods.

Reviewer: Permission snippets are here: https://github.com/streamr-dev/network-monorepo/pull/450/files

If that PR gets landed to `main` before this PR, please merge those snippets to this PR.

Data Union deployment uses the [CREATE2 opcode](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1014) which means
a Data Union deployed by a particular address with particular "name" will have a predictable address.

### Utility functions

> The static function `StreamrClient.generateEthereumAccount()` generates a new Ethereum private key and returns an object with fields `address` and `privateKey`. Note that this private key can be used to authenticate to the Streamr API by passing it in the authentication options, as described earlier in this document.

Reviewer: This could be a bit shorter explanation as we've already introduced this earlier?

Reviewer: I'd remove lines 674-679. This chapter is about the utility functions, we may assume that users know if they need them? (We've linked to this section)

Author: Sorry, which lines are you suggesting to remove? The utility method text has changed since this comment:
https://github.com/streamr-dev/network-monorepo/blob/98f9488b48d71a08fc67b2001f2ac453ab418e77/packages/client/README.md#utility-functions

Reviewer: These:
```
Note that this private key can be used to authenticate to the Streamr API by passing it in the authentication options, as described earlier in this document:
...
const streamr = new StreamrClient({
    auth: { privateKey }
})
```

```js 
const wallet = StreamrClient.generateEthereumAccount()
```
Generates a random Ethereum account object:
```js
    wallet = {address, privateKey}
```
In order to retrieve the client's address an async call must me made to `streamr.getAddress`
```js
const address = await streamr.getAddress()
```

## Advanced Usage

### Manual connection management

> By default the client will automatically connect and disconnect as needed, ideally you should not need to manage connection state explicitly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default the client will automatically connect and disconnect as needed, you should not need to manage connection state manually.
```

> Specifically, it will automatically connect when you publish or subscribe, and automatically disconnect once all subscriptions are removed and no messages were recently published. This behaviour can be disabled using the `autoConnect` & `autoDisconnect` options when creating a `new StreamrClient`. Explicit calls to either `connect()` or `disconnect()` will disable all `autoConnect` & `autoDisconnect` functionality, but they can be re-enabled by calling `enableAutoConnect()` or `enableAutoDisconnect()`.

Reviewer: Is this description still valid? To me it looks like `disconnect` is an alias to `destroy`, and therefore I'd expect we shouldn't do anything after destroying the instance:
https://github.com/streamr-dev/network-monorepo/blob/557a7ecc92779e1a40d6d6d5e7485bc4a40516d9/packages/client/src/StreamrClient.ts#L146

Also, as the `disconnect` is a deprecated method, we should use `destroy` instead

Author: should the references to `disconnect` be removed and the text reworked into "here's how to auto-connect" or should the section be removed?

Reviewer: No. Two things:
- `Disconnect` is a deprecated method, and the documentation should not reference to any deprecated methods. A replacement for the method is `destroy()`. (see the link in the previous message)
- To me it sounds that destroy() is not a direct replacement for disconnect() because the word "disconnect" would tell me that I can reconnect if I want. But a word "destroy" indicated that after destroying a client, we should't interact with that client instance anymore.

If the assumption in my second bullet-point is valid, some sentences in the above section needs to be corrected. Maybe easiest to test this out in practice?

Author: Removed the references to `disconnect` in the text and snippets, not sure this is the right place to mention `destroy` since it is unrelated to the connect/disconnect functionality.

Here's the latest text to look into, am assuming it will require a few more corrections:
https://github.com/streamr-dev/network-monorepo/blob/1119d4159e55bcbacc59d119cac3c23aeb08b443/packages/client/README.md#manual-connection-management

Reviewer: To me it looks like `autoConnect` and `autoDisconnect` don't do anything. Have you tried to execute the example? Or is there an example in the examples repo about this?

Reviewer: Made a PR: https://github.com/streamr-dev/network-monorepo/pull/471

Calls that need a connection, such as `publish` or `subscribe` will fail with an error if you are disconnected and autoConnect is disabled.

```js
const streamr = new StreamrClient({
    auth: {
        privateKey: 'your-private-key'
    },
    autoConnect: false,
    autoDisconnect: false,
})

// Safely connects if not connected. Returns a promise. Resolves immediately if already connected. Only rejects if an error occurs during connection.    
await streamr.connect()

// Safely disconnects if not already disconnected, clearing all subscriptions. Returns a Promise.  Resolves immediately if already disconnected. Only rejects if an error occurs during disconnection.
await streamr.disconnect()
```

> ### Disable message ordering

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Disable message ordering and gap filling
```

> If your use-case doesn't require message order to be enforced or if you want it to be tolerant to out-of-sync messages you can turn off the message ordering upon client creation:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your use case tolerates missing messages and message arriving out-of-order, you can turn off message ordering and gap filling when creating a instance of the client:
```

```js
const streamr = new StreamrClient({
    auth: { ... },
    orderMessages: false,
    gapFill: false
})
```

> Both of these flags should be disabled in tandem for message ordering to be properly turned off.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Both of these flags should be disabled in tandem for message ordering and gap filling to be properly turned off.
```

By disabling message ordering your application won't perform any filling nor sorting, dispatching messages as they come (faster) but without granting their collective integrity.

### Stream Partitioning

Partitioning (sharding) enables streams to scale horizontally. This section describes how to use partitioned streams via this library. To learn the basics of partitioning, see [the docs](https://streamr.network/docs/streams#partitioning).

#### A note on Stream ids and partitions
The public methods of the client generally support the following three ways of defining a stream:
```js

> Stream id as a string:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Stream id as a string:
```

const streamId = `${address}/foo/bar`

// Stream id + partition as a string
const streamId = `${address}/foo/bar#4`

// Stream id + partition as an object
const streamId = { 
    id: `${address}/foo/bar`, 
    partition: 4 
}
```

    

#### Creating partitioned streams

> By default, streams only have 1 partition when they are created. The partition count can be set to any positive number (max 100). An example of creating a partitioned stream using the JS client:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, streams only have 1 partition when they are created. The partition count can be set to any number between 1 and 100. An example of creating a partitioned stream:
```

```js

> // Requires gas

Reviewer: Consistent comment about gas. Also why we say about the gas here, but not e.g. when we modify permissions?

const stream = await streamr.createStream({

>     id: `/partitioned-stream`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    id: `/foo/bar`,
```

The partition key can be given as an argument to the `publish` methods, and the library assigns a deterministic partition number automatically:

```js
// msg.vehicleId being the partition key
await streamr.publish(streamId, msg, Date.now(), msg.vehicleId)
// or, equivalently, using the stream object
await stream.publish(msg, Date.now(), msg.vehicleId)
```

> You can also specify the partition number as the last parameter:

Reviewer: Remove this example as we don't encourage this style

The partition key can be given as an argument to the `publish` methods, and the library assigns a deterministic partition number automatically:

```js
// msg.vehicleId being the partition key
await streamr.publish(streamId, msg, Date.now(), msg.vehicleId)
// or, equivalently, using the stream object
await stream.publish(msg, Date.now(), msg.vehicleId)
```
You can also specify the partition number as the last parameter:
```js 
await streamr.publish(streamId, msg, Date.now(), 4)
// or, equivalently, using the stream object

> await stream.publish(msg, Date.now(), 4)

Reviewer 2: I'd remove this part. Let's not advertise this way of publishing to partition. The example after this is preferred.

```

> Alternatively, you can specify the partition number as part of the stream id:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can specify the partition number explicitly:
```

```js
await streamr.publish({
    id: `${address}/foo/bar`,
    partition: 4

> }, msg, Date.now())

Reviewer: Date.now() is redundant

```

#### Subscribing to partitioned streams

> By default, the JS client subscribes to the first partition (partition `0`) in a stream. This behavior will change in the future so that it will subscribe to all partitions by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, the client subscribes to the first partition (partition `0`) of a stream. Be aware: this behavior will change in the future so that it will subscribe to _all_ partitions by default.
```

| Name                                    | Returns                 |   Description    |
| :-------------------------------------- | :---------------------- | :--------------- |
| `*` generateEthereumAccount()           | `{address, privatekey}` | Generates a random Ethereum account  |
| getTokenBalance(address)                | `Promise<BigNumber>`             | Mainnet DATA token balance |
| getSidechainTokenBalance(address)       | `Promise<BigNumber>`             | Sidechain DATA token balance |
| client.getAddress() | `Promise<string>` | The client's Ethereum address

`*` The static function `StreamrClient.generateEthereumAccount()` generates a new
Ethereum private key and returns an object with fields `address` and `privateKey`.
Note that this private key can be used to authenticate to the Streamr API
by passing it in the authentication options, as described earlier in this document.

> ## Events

Reviewer 2: I'd remove this section, internal stuff.

By default, streams only have 1 partition when they are created. The partition count can be set to any positive number (1-100 is reasonable). An example of creating a partitioned stream using the JS client:

```typescript
const stream = await client.createStream({

>     id: `${await client.getAddress()}/partitioned-stream`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    id: `/partitioned-stream`,
```

The partition key can be given as an argument to the `publish` methods, and the library assigns a deterministic partition number automatically:

```typescript

> await client.publish(STREAM_ID, msg, Date.now(), msg.vehicleId)

Reviewer 2: I would add to the above description an explicit note that `msg.vehicleId` is the partition key in this example.
```suggestion
await client.publish(STREAM_ID, msg, Date.now(), msg.vehicleId) // msg.vehicleId is the partition key here
```

Reviewer: Agree with @harbu here

> By default, the JS client subscribes to the first partition (partition `0`) in a stream. The partition number can be explicitly given in the subscribe call:

Reviewer 2: This behavior will change in the future so that it will subscribe to all partitions by default.

```typescript
const sub = await client.subscribe({

>     stream: STREAM_ID,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    id: STREAM_ID,
```

>     partition: 4, // defaults to 0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    partition: 4
```

Or, to subscribe to multiple partitions, if the subscriber can handle the volume:

```typescript
const handler = (payload, streamMessage) => {
    console.log('Got message %o from partition %d', payload, streamMessage.getStreamPartition())
}

await Promise.all([2, 3, 4].map(async (partition) => {
    await client.subscribe({

>         stream: STREAM_ID,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        id: STREAM_ID,
```
